Update supabase integration guide (#707)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/integrations/databases/supabase.mdx

description: Learn how to integrate Clerk into your Supabase application.
---

<TutorialHero
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "Set up a Clerk application",
      link: "/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk",
    },
  ]}
>

- Use Clerk to authenticate access to your Supabase data
- Access Clerk user IDs in your Supabase RLS policies
- Customize a JWT template to suit your use-case with Supabase

</TutorialHero>

> Integrating Supabase with Clerk enables you to implement Supabase's robust storage options while leveraging Clerk's authentication, prebuilt components, and webhooks.

Author: Good point!

The following steps will teach you how to integrate Supabase with Clerk by creating [Row Level Security](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/row-level-security) (RLS) policies that show users content associated with their account.

<Steps>
 

> ### Add `user_id` to your Supabase tables

Reviewer: Just want to make the callout that they shouldn't have to name it "user_id" -- they could name it whatever they'd like as long as they make sure when they implement the policy, they point to the correct property. 

Unsure if we need to make that callout, but wanted to make sure we're aware.

To show users content scoped to their account, you must create RLS policies that check the user's ID. To access user IDs in your RLS policies, you must add a `user_id` column to the relevant tables:

- In your Supabase dashboard, in the sidebar, navigate to **Database** > **Tables**. From here, you can choose which table you want to edit, and add the new column.

>     - For this example, you can call the column `user_id`.

Reviewer: RE: my comment my above I realize you're using _can_ here -- so we are recognizing it's ability to be something else 🤝

</Callout>

### Create a SQL query that checks the user ID

Next, you must create a `requesting_user_id()` function so you can access the user ID in your RLS policies:
    1. In your Supabase dashboard, in the sidebar, navigate to **SQL Editor**, then select **New query**. Paste the following into the editor:
        ```sql
        create or replace function requesting_user_id() returns text as $$ select nullif(current_setting('request.jwt.claims', true)::json->>'sub', '')::text; $$ language sql stable;
        ```
    1. Select **Run** to execute the query and create the function.

### Create ID-based RLS policies

Now you must create RLS policies that allow users to modify and read content associated with their user IDs:
1. Create an RLS policy for inserting content:
    - In your Supabase dashboard, in the sidebar, navigate to **Authentication** > **Policies**. Under the name of the table you want users to have access to, select **New Policy**.
    - If you're using the policy editor, paste the following snippet:
        ```sql filename="Supabase policy editor"

>         CREATE POLICY "create user post" ON "public"."Posts"

Reviewer: My thoughts here are we should probably use the original "Todos" example as it makes sense in context to scope todos to a specific user, whereas posts would only be scoped by user in a personal page for editing. 

I used Posts in my notes as a way to deviate from the original tutorial and see if it broke anything

Author: I checked out the blog post example, and to integrate that into this guide would require a pretty large rewrite. Instead, I changed it so this example fetches addresses scoped to a user. It's standard in ecommerce to have a separate addresses table when addresses are optional and users can have multiple

        return await supabaseClient(supabaseAccessToken);
      };
      return null;
    }
    ```
    ```tsx filename="pages/supabase/index.tsx"
    export default function Supabase() {
      const { getToken, userId } = useAuth();

      const getSupabaseClient = async () => {
        // Replace with your JWT template name
        const supabaseAccessToken = await getToken({ template: "supabase" });
        if (!supabaseAccessToken)
          throw new Error("Failed to get token from JWT template");
        return await supabaseClient(supabaseAccessToken);
      };
      return null;
    }
    ```
    ```tsx filename="components/supabase.tsx"
    export default function Supabase() {
      const { getToken, userId } = useAuth();

      const getSupabaseClient = async () => {
        // Replace with your JWT template name
        const supabaseAccessToken = await getToken({ template: "supabase" });
        if (!supabaseAccessToken)
          throw new Error("Failed to get token from JWT template");
        return await supabaseClient(supabaseAccessToken);
      };
      return null;
    }
    ```
    </CodeBlockTabs>

> 1. Next, add code to your component to send and get posts from your database. 

Reviewer: In your App Router example, you're utilizing client code in a component that isn't explicitly using "use client" which will break if we don't make the specific callout. 

App router components are "Server first" in that, not marking them explicitly to "use client" will break when using hooks like `useRef`, `useState`, etc

Author: Yeah, I have `"use client"` at the top of the file in the first snippet, and at the top of the full snippet in the final snippet

Reviewer 2: I see what he's doing - each step is building on the same /app/supabase/page.tsx - so that you get to the final step, which shows u what the code should look like in its entirety

        </div>
        <h2>Posts</h2>
        <p>
          {!posts ? (
            <strong>No posts</strong>
          ) : (
            <ul>
              {posts.map((post: any) => (
                <li key={post.id}>{post.content}</li>
              ))}
            </ul>
          )}
        </p>
      </>
    );
    ```
    ```tsx filename="components/supabase.tsx"
    return (
      <>
        <div style={{ display: "flex", flexDirection: "column" }}>
          <input style={{ color: "black" }} type="text" ref={inputRef} />
          <button onClick={sendPost}>Send Post</button>
          <button onClick={listPosts}>Fetch Posts</button>
        </div>
        <h2>Posts</h2>
        <p>
          {!posts ? (
            <strong>No posts</strong>
          ) : (
            <ul>
              {posts.map((post: any) => (
                <li key={post.id}>{post.content}</li>
              ))}
            </ul>
          )}
        </p>
      </>
    );
    ```
    </CodeBlockTabs>
1. The final result should be similar to this:
    <CodeBlockTabs type="framework" options={["Next.js App Router", "Next.js Pages Router", "React"]}>
    ```ts filename="app/supabase/page.tsx"

>     "use client";

Reviewer: Glad we're making the distinction from above here -- may not need the callout above, but still something to think about

      };

      const inputRef = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
      const sendPost = async () => {
        if (!inputRef.current?.value) return;
        const client = await getSupabaseClient();
        const { data, error } = await client.from("Posts").insert({
          user_id: userId,
          // Replace content with whatever field you want
          content: inputRef.current?.value,
        });
      };

      return (
        <>
          <div style={{ display: "flex", flexDirection: "column" }}>
            <input style={{ color: "black" }} type="text" ref={inputRef} />
            <button onClick={sendPost}>Send Post</button>
            <button onClick={listPosts}>Fetch Posts</button>
          </div>
          <h2>Posts</h2>
          {!posts ? (
            <p>No posts</p>
          ) : (
            <ul>
              {posts.map((post: any) => (
                <li key={post.id}>{post.content}</li>
              ))}
            </ul>
          )}
        </>
      );
    }
    ```
    </CodeBlockTabs>
1. Try out your application. When you visit the page with your component, you'll be required to sign in. Try creating and fetching content.

</Steps>

## Next steps

> - Get started with Clerk's official [clerk-supabase-starter](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-supabase-starter) repo

Reviewer: I'm assuming before this goes live we'll want to wait for an updated starter to match the integration path & an updated blog with the same?

Author: I think we can remove these links for now, then add a link to the updated starter when it's done as a small followup PR. Thoughts?

Reviewer: Depends on how we want to view this as done. 

I'll spin up the starter now and see if there's anything that's needed to be added there for a quick update to be able to keep it. 

As far as the blog, we can unlink the previous one, and re-add once a new one is created.

<Callout type="info">
  You must have a local project with Clerk set up already to follow this tutorial. See [the quickstart docs](/docs/quickstarts/overview) to get started.
</Callout>

<Steps>
 
### Add `user_id` to your Supabase tables

To show users content scoped to their account, you must create RLS policies that check the user's ID. To access user IDs in your RLS policies, you must add a `user_id` column to the relevant tables:

- In your Supabase dashboard, in the sidebar, navigate to **Database** > **Tables**. From here, you can choose which table you want to edit, and add the new column.
    - You can name the column anything, but for this example, name it `user_id`.
    - **This column's data type must be `text`**.

<Callout type="info">
  This step is required becase Supabase's `auth.uuid()` function, which normally grants access to the user ID in RLS policies, is not compatible with Clerk's user IDs.
</Callout>

### Create a SQL query that checks the user ID

> Next, you must create a `requesting_user_id()` function so you can access the user ID in your RLS policies:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a `requesting_user_id()` function so that you can access the user ID in your RLS policies:
```

    1. In your Supabase dashboard, in the sidebar, navigate to **SQL Editor**, then select **New query**. Paste the following into the editor:
        ```sql
        create or replace function requesting_user_id() returns text as $$ select nullif(current_setting('request.jwt.claims', true)::json->>'sub', '')::text; $$ language sql stable;
        ```

>     1. Select **Run** to execute the query and create the function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Select **Run** to execute the query and create the function.
```

Author: Markdown can auto-number a list, so it's best to use all 1s where possible. Prevents issues if you delete a step in the middle. Here's how it looks in the preview:
![image](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/assets/5156915/4791d573-004f-4739-8323-719b047374fe)

### Create ID-based RLS policies

> Now you must create RLS policies that allow users to modify and read content associated with their user IDs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create RLS policies that allow users to modify and read content associated with their user IDs:
```

        ```sql filename="Supabase policy editor"
        CREATE POLICY "create user post" ON "public"."Posts"
        AS PERMISSIVE FOR INSERT
        TO authenticated

        WITH CHECK (requesting_user_id() = user_id)
        ```       
    - If you're using the GUI to create a policy, select **For full customization**.
        - Name the policy whatever you want.
        - For **Allowed operation**, select **INSERT**.
        - For **Target roles**, select **authenticated**.
        - For the **USING** expression, paste the following:
        ```sql filename="Supabase policy editor"
        requesting_user_id() = user_id
        ```
        <Callout type="info">
        Replace `user_id` with whatever you named the column you'll be storing user IDs in.
        </Callout>
1. Create another RLS policy to allow users to read content from the same table they can modify. Follow the same instructions as the previous step, but the **Allowed operation** must be **SELECT** instead of **INSERT**.
    - If you're using the editor, copy the same snippet from the previous step, replacing `FOR INSERT` with `FOR SELECT`.

### Get your Supabase JWT secret key

> To give users access to your data, Supabase's API requires an access token to authenticate requests. Your Clerk project can generate these access tokens, but needs your Supabase project's JWT secret key first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To give users access to your data, Supabase's API requires an access token to authenticate requests. Your Clerk project can generate these access tokens, but it needs your Supabase project's JWT secret key first.
```

> To find it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find the JWT secret key:
```

> 1. Select your project from your Supabase dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Supabase dashboard, select your project.
```

1. In the sidebar, select **Settings** > **API**. Copy the value in the **JWT Secret** field.

> 1. Open [the Clerk dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/) in a new tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/) in a new tab.
```

### Create a Supabase JWT template

Clerk's JWT templates allow you to generate a new valid Supabase access token for each signed in user. These tokens allow authenticated users to access your data with Supabase's API.

To create a JWT template for Supabase:

1. Open your project in the Clerk Dashboard and navigate to the **JWT Templates** page in the sidebar.
2. Select the **New template** button, then select **Supabase** from the list of options.
3. Configure your template:

>     - The value of the **Name** field will be required when using the template in your code. For this quickstart, name it `supabase`. 

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't consider this a quickstart; moreso a tutorial.

```suggestion
    - The value of the **Name** field will be required when using the template in your code. For this tutorial, name it `supabase`. 
```

      pnpm add @clerk/nextjs @supabase/supabase-js
      ```
    </CodeBlockTabs>
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    <CodeBlockTabs type="installer" options={["npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
      ```bash filename="terminal"
      npm install @clerk/clerk-react @supabase/supabase-js
      ```

      ```bash filename="terminal"
      yarn add @clerk/clerk-react @supabase/supabase-js
      ```

      ```bash filename="terminal"
      pnpm add @clerk/clerk-react @supabase/supabase-js
      ```
    </CodeBlockTabs>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

Then, set up your environment variables:

1. If you don't have a `.env.local` file in the root directory of your Next.js project, create one now.
1. Find your Clerk publishable key and secret key. If you're signed into Clerk, the `.env.local` snippet below will contain your keys. Otherwise:
    - Navigate to your Clerk Dashboard.
    - Select your application, then select **API Keys** in the sidebar menu.
    - You can copy your keys from the Quick Copy section.
1. Add your keys to your `.env.local` file.
1. Find your Supabase credentials:
    - Go to your Supabase dashboard. In the sidebar, select **Settings** > **API**.
    - Copy the **Project URL**.

>     - Copy the value beside `anon` `public` in the **Project API Keys** section.

Reviewer 2: did you mean to separate the `anon` and `public` ? are only one of these supposed to be present ?

Author: Yeah, they're separated like that in the supabase UI

![image](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/assets/5156915/03386dff-00f0-4b7e-9da1-894260a58a01)

1. Add your Supabase credentials to your `.env.local` file.

The final result should be similar to this:

    <InjectKeys>
    <CodeBlockTabs type="framework" options={["Next.js", "React"]}>
    ```js filename=".env.local"
    NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY={{pub_key}}

>     NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your-supabase-url
>     NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_KEY=your-supabase-anon-key
>     ```
>     ```js filename=".env.local"
>     REACT_APP_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY={{pub_key}}
>     REACT_APP_SUPABASE_URL=your-supabase-url
>     REACT_APP_SUPABASE_KEY=your-supabase-anon-key

Reviewer 2: the pub_key will show up as `your_publishable_key` so let's use `_` to be consistent with naming conventions !

```suggestion
    NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
    NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
    ```
    ```js filename=".env.local"
    REACT_APP_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY={{pub_key}}
    REACT_APP_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
    REACT_APP_SUPABASE_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
```

    ```
    </CodeBlockTabs>      
    </InjectKeys>

### Fetch Supabase data in your code 

The following steps will show you how to fetch and send content to your Supabase tables based on the user's ID. It assumes you have a table named "Posts" with a `content` field, but you can adapt this code for any use case.

> 1. Create a component in your app and define a client object that can connect to your database:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a component in your app and define a `Client` object that can connect to your database:
```
